# Leetcode 1. Two Sum

## [Question Link](https://leetcode.com/problems/two-sum/)
### Easy

#### [Python](https://github.com/Uchiha-Itachi0/Mai_kisi_ko_DSA_nahi_padhta/blob/master/Python/1.%20Tow%20sum.py)

In this question, we have to find the indices of the two numbers in the array such that they add up to the target.

For example: `nums = [2, 7, 11, 15], target = 9`

So, we have to find the indices of the numbers 2 and 7 in the array such that they add up to 9.

So, the answer will be `[0, 1]`

Here I will not be going to discuss the brute force approach in detail. Because it will take O(n^2) time complexity.

So, what you need to do in Brute force approach is:

- Iterate over the array and for each element, iterate over the array again and check if the sum of the two elements is equal to the target or not.
- If the sum is equal to the target then return the indices of the two elements.
- If the sum is not equal to the target then continue the iteration.

For example: `nums = [2, 7, 11, 15], target = 18`
- 2 + 7 = 9 -> False
- 2 + 11 = 13 -> False
- 2 + 15 = 17 -> False
- 7 + 11 = 18 -> True
- Return the indices of 7 and 11.

So, the answer will be `[1, 2]`

But this approach will take O(n^2) time complexity. And we don't want that.

So, what can we do to reduce the time complexity?

What if the array is sorted?

- If the array is sorted then we can use the two pointer approach.

But then we will not be able to return the correct indices of the two elements. Because the array will be updated.

So, what can we do?

Let's understand this problem with the help of simple mathematics.

if we have two numbers `a` and `b` and `a + b = target`

then `b = target - a`

So, we can store the difference of the target and the current element in the dictionary and check if the current element is present in the dictionary or not.

We will store the index of the current element as the value of the dictionary. Because we need to return the indices of the two elements.

For example: `nums = [2, 7, 11, 15], target = 18`

dict = {}
- `a = 2, b = 18 - 2 = 16` 16 is not present in the dictionary, so we store the element in the dictionary.

dict = {2: 0}
- `a = 7, b = 18 - 7 = 11` 11 is not present in the dictionary, so we store the element in the dictionary.

dict = {2: 0, 7: 1}

- `a = 11, b = 18 - 11 = 7` 7 is present in the dictionary, so we return the indices of the current element and the element present in the dictionary.

Return the indices of 7 and 11.

So, the answer will be `[1, 2]`

So, this is the approach that we will be using in this question.

Let's see the code:

```python
def twoSum(nums: list[int], target: int) -> list[int]:
    storage = {}
    for index, value in enumerate(nums):
        if (target - value) in storage:
            return [storage[target - value], index]
        storage[value] = index
```

Time Complexity: O(n)

Space Complexity: O(n)
